Lawer and Lawers
BACKGROUND
The Foundation started as a Family Support Project in the early 2000, providing financial and material support to students at the various levels of the education ladder especially secondary and tertiary. The project also supported the underprivileged to learn one trade or the other and introduced women to micro and small businesses.
Over the years, the need for further and higher interventions became necessary as many more people approached the project for assistance following the track record and evidence of success in the communities in the catchment area.
Many of the members of the original/initial group are well established in life today contributing in diverse ways to community and national development.  They have become monumental testimonies to the Foundation’s accomplishments.
The foundation operated unregistered for a while because of the seemingly informal nature of the operations, until the urgent need to do so arose recently.  It became necessary to formalize its operations and to allow for the expansion of the programmes to diversify the issues and to take on more people due to demand.
Currently, there are orphans from this project in various levels of both formal and informal education across the nation with some living and studying outside the country.
Justification
Children all over the world have a right to stay alive and to receive good care. Many times, deprived children are faced with many challenges and are not able to catch up with their peers in education, and other socio-economic lifestyles. Children must have equal opportunities for living whether their parents are alive or not.
Many years ago, it was easy to identify with the extended family system which allowed other members of a family to be able to cater for the child of a distant relation despite their circumstances. Presently socio-economic situations have changed and many families are unable to take care of themselves not to talk of another person’s child. Children of the latter category are therefore left to fend for themselves, which bring untold hardship and related degradation on their lives and those of the communities in which they live. The Lower Manya Krobo municipality in the Eastern Region of Ghana is a typical example where many communities are deprived of social safety nets. They end up engaging in activities of child labour, prostitution, robbery and other vices.
It is in line with the above that the Lawer and Lawers Foundation decided to apply its core values to help the young orphaned boys and girls as well as the widows and single mothers in the afore mentioned communities.
In this regard, the specific core values which is to win souls for Christ and to help deprived children especially orphans, were applied.  Further investigations and interactions confirmed the status of these boys and girls as partially or fully orphaned. In the process of this initial investigative work, it was also realized that there were a few elderly widowed women who also expressed interest in helping the children even though they did not have the means at the time.
Vision
To create a world where everyone has access to quality education and skills training, enabling them to acquire the necessary skills and knowledge to succeed in their careers for holistic sustainable livelihood and contribute effectively to economic growth and national development.
Mission
To become a premier hub for training, character education, and employment opportunities in Ghana, empowering vulnerable individuals, particularly those from disadvantaged background with relevant skills and knowledge to secure meaningful employment or start their own businesses for sustainable livelihoods and to enhance human development.
Main Objective
To empower the vulnerable populations in the project area through Education, Economic empowerment and social support for holistic human development.
Objectives of the foundation shall be:
To support Orphans class 1 and 2 with the provision of materials, financial, and counselling to pursue both basic and higher education through the Love of Jesus
To provide hope for vulnerable children through material and financial support for their education, career and vocational trainings in Ghana.
To support the Youth to learn the requisite trade and apprenticeship
To empower Widows and vulnerable women through counselling, financial and other material provision to live sustainably.
To provide residential accommodation to serve as shelter for some of these people sustainably. Provide support to Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) to enhance their skills and employability
To ensure that vulnerable People are supported in the provision of their health care
To provide accessible skills training programs that will cater to individual needs
To Support women and youth to establish micro-businesses to support themselves.
Build partnership with government, Private sector Organizations and CSOs to leverage resources, expertise, funding and ensuring sustainable impact.
Equip individuals with digital skills to enhance their employability and participation in the digital economy.
Strategic Objectives:
Education and empowerment: Provide educational support and vocational training to 150 orphans, enhancing their future prospects. Providing counseling for career enhancement.
Economic Empowerment: Train and support 50 widows and single mothers in entrepreneurship, promoting economic independence through material, financial and other social interventions.
Social Support: Offer social support and community outreach to 200 beneficiaries fostering a sense of belonging and resilience.
Provide counseling
Sustainability: Establish partnerships and income generating activities to ensure the Foundation’s long-term impact and growth.
Program Overview:
Empowering Orphans, Vulnerable Women and House helps
Our program aims to empower orphans, single mothers, and widows in the Lower Manya Krobo of the Eastern Region of Ghana through education, economic empowerment, social experience and financial support. By addressing immediate needs and building long term resilience, we empower these groups to to break cycles of poverty and contribute to development and growth of their communities and the nation at large.
- Educational support and vocational training for orphans
- Entrepreneurship training and microfinance opportunities for single mothers and widows
- Socio-cultural support and counselling services
- Community outreach and advocacy initiatives
1.Orphan Support Program:
Provide educational support, shelter, and care to orphans in need.
2.Women's Empowerment Program:
Offer training, mentorship/ counselling, and microfinance opportunities to women entrepreneurs.
3.House Helps and Home Care Services Program
Key Programme Areas
Every child has needs. Some may have special needs others may have unnoticeable challenges. In all situations however it is important to pay attention to their basic growth requirements.
The Lawer and Lawer Foundation has these main Programme areas for effective intervention:
Education and Child Development
Women's Empowerment
Healthcare and Wellbeing
Economic Empowerment
Domestic/House help Interventions
Community Engagement and Empowerment
Selection criteria for beneficiaries:
. Identify and confirm orphaned children and widows 
. Identify and train care givers and provide other resources .
Liaise with headmasters and management of the various schools to give specific interventions
Plan occasional visits to areas that will bring exposure and visibility .
Develop awareness creation and empowerment workshops .
Develop well-structured counselling programs for the children, students and the widows. .
Interaction with adult Christian women and men who will be role models for other young people
Identify interested persons and recruit for training in care giving by various professionals.
<w:t>Activities
Skills Training
Offer vocational skills like sewing, baking, hair dressing or computer literacy to boost self-reliance.
Education Support
Provide scholarships, books, and tutoring to help them pursue their studies.
Mentorship Programs
Pair them with positive role models for guidance and emotional support.
Income-Generating Projects
Set up small businesses or provide start-up kits for sustainable livelihoods.
Basic care giving /life Skills, and Well-being training
Teach functional literacy, First Aid, childcare, Elderly (Geriatrics) care, Etiquette
***Art &amp; Therapy Sessions
Use art, music, or sports to promote healing and self-expression.
Community Involvement
Organize events to foster connections, build acquaintances and reduce stigma.
Expected Outcomes
Well nurtured. educated, disciplined, informed and very God Fearing children, men and women.
Active involvement of the beneficiaries in school, community and National Programme agenda.
Improved educational results for orphans and increased economic independence for women.
Strengthened community engagement and support networks
Well-seasoned and trained men and women as house helps and Care givers
Details provided
</w:r><w:r w:rsidRPr="001511FE"><w:rPr><w:rFonts w:ascii="Arial" w:hAnsi="Arial" w:cs="Arial"/><w:b/><w:bCs/><w:sz w:val="22"/><w:szCs w:val="22"/></w:rPr><w:t xml:space="preserve"> Outputs
Increased Access to Education:
Of 50 orphans enrolled in school
Of 30 widows and single mothers enrolled in vocational training
Of 80 students receiving scholarships or educational support
Economic Empowerment of :
20 Widows /single mothers starting small businesses ,
40 women receive vocational skills training
Total income generated by beneficiaries= GHS 60,000
Community integration:
of 4 community events
70 beneficiaries in support groups
Community members sensitized on supporting vulnerable groups ( 200)
Psychological support:
40 Orphans participating in art/music therapy session
30 Widows and single mothers receiving counselling
Increase in self-esteem among beneficiaries: 70%
Achievements
Almost all who completed tertiary learning are gainfully employed.
Many women started various businesses to improve their livelihoods
There are five (5) people at various tertiary institutions presently.
Future Plans
Build a city to serve as shelter for vulnerable children, youth, young adults, women, men, disabled and anyone in need.
Orphans only
Education from Pre-school to Tertiary
Providing full and wholistic care
Widows and old people to receive monthly assistance in various forms.
Build and develop a hub for the supply of house and other helps in the home.
Organisational Values
Human Dignity
Accountability and loyalty
Love for all Humans regardless
Target Beneficiaries:
- 60 orphans
- 40 single mothers
-70 widows
30 care givers
Duration: 5 years
Your support / Sponsorship can:
change a life and shape the future of many
give a vulnerable child or a young single parent:
education,
nutrition (food)
health care
shelter
clothing
financial aid
provide reliable trained caregivers to households needing support with cleaning, cooking etc.
Who we help:
children without parents
women who have lost their spouses
men and women looking for jobs as Care givers and house helps?
How you can help: Donate, Volunteer or spread the word
Goals:
Improve educational outcomes and economic prospects for orphans
Enhance economic independence and self-sufficiency for single mothers and widows
Target Beneficiaries:
- 60 orphans
- 40 single mothers